# crawsqueal = "crawl" + "SQL" 🦜

Explore a website archive in your browser.

First, you'll need a
[Website ARChive (WARC) file](https://archive-it.org/blog/post/the-stack-warc-file/)
generated by crawling your website of interest. This repository contains
[one method to run a crawler](#generating-a-crawl-database-from-a-warc-file),
although numerous other popular tools exist for this purpose. Alternatively,
you can use an existing WARC from another source, for example the
[Internet Archive](https://archive.org/search.php?query=mediatype%3A%28web%29).

Next, use this repository to convert your WARC file into a SQLite database file
for easier querying. Use the SQLite command-line interface to
[make basic queries](#searching-the-crawl-database)
about website content including:

- URLs
- Page titles
- Full text search
- HTML search
- Link URLs
- Design components (CSS class names)
- Crawler errors (404s and more)
- Redirects

Finally,
[run the viewer application](#running-the-viewer-application)
in this repository to explore website content in your browser.
Make queries through an easy-to-use web form, review page details,
and export results as CSV or JSON reports.

## Generating a crawl database from a WARC file

A [WARC](https://archive-it.org/blog/post/the-stack-warc-file/)
(Web ARChive) is a file standard for storing web content in its original context,
maintained by the International Internet Preservation Consortium (IIPC).

Many tools exist to generate WARCs.
The Internet Archive maintains the
[Heritrix](https://github.com/internetarchive/heritrix3) web crawler that can generate WARCs;
a longer list of additional tools for this purpose can be found
[here](http://dhamaniasad.github.io/WARCTools/).

The common command-line tool
[wget](https://wiki.archiveteam.org/index.php/Wget_with_WARC_output)
can also be used to generate WARCs. A sample script to do so can be found in this repository,
and can be invoked like this:

```sh
./wget_crawl.sh https://www.consumerfinance.gov/
```

This will generate a WARC archive file named `crawl.warc.gz`.
This file can then be converted to a SQLite database using a command like:

```sh
./manage.py warc_to_db crawl.warc.gz crawl.sqlite3
```

Alternatively, to dump a WARC archive file to a set of CSVs:

```sh
./manage.py warc_to_csv crawl.warc.gz
```

## Searching the crawl database

You can use the
[SQLite command-line client](https://www.sqlite.org/cli.html)
to make queries against the crawl database,
or a graphical client such as [DB4S](https://github.com/sqlitebrowser/sqlitebrowser) if you prefer.

To run the command-line client:

```
sqlite3 crawl.sqlite3
```

The following examples describe some common use cases.

### Dump database statistics

To list the total number of URLs and crawl timestamps:

```sql
sqlite> SELECT COUNT(*), MIN(timestamp), MAX(timestamp) FROM crawler_page;
23049|2022-07-20 02:50:02|2022-07-20 08:35:23
```

Note that page data is stored in a table named `crawler_page`.

### List pages that link to a certain URL

```sql
sqlite> SELECT DISTINCT url
FROM crawler_page
INNER JOIN crawler_page_links ON (crawler_page.id = crawler_page_links.page_id)
INNER JOIN crawler_link ON (crawler_page_links.link_id = crawler_page_link.id)
WHERE href LIKE "/plain-writing/"
ORDER BY url ASC;
```

To dump results to a CSV instead of the terminal:

```sql
sqlite> .mode csv
sqlite> .output filename.csv
sqlite> ... run your query here
sqlite> .output stdout
sqlite> .mode list
```

To search with wildcards, use the `%` character:

```sql
sqlite> SELECT DISTINCT url
FROM crawler_page
INNER JOIN crawler_page_links ON (crawler_page.id = crawler_page_links.page_id)
INNER JOIN crawler_link ON (crawler_page_links.link_id = crawler_link.id)
WHERE href LIKE "/about-us/blog/"
ORDER BY url ASC;
```

### List pages that contain a specific design component

```sql
sqlite> SELECT DISTINCT url
FROM crawler_page
INNER JOIN crawler_page_components ON (crawler_page.id = crawler_page_components.page_id)
INNER JOIN crawler_component ON (crawler_page_components.component_id = crawler_component.id)
WHERE crawler_component.class_name LIKE "o-featured-content-module"
ORDER BY url ASC
```

See the [CFPB Design System](https://cfpb.github.io/design-system/)
for a list of common components used on CFPB websites.

### List pages with titles containing a specific string

```sql
SELECT url FROM crawler_page WHERE title LIKE "%housing%" ORDER BY url ASC;
```

### List pages with body text containing a certain string

```sql
sqlite> SELECT url FROM crawler_page WHERE text LIKE "%diamond%" ORDER BY URL asc;
```

### List pages with HTML containing a certain string

```sql
sqlite> SELECT url FROM crawler_page WHERE html LIKE "%<br>%" ORDER BY URL asc;
```

## Running the viewer application

From the repo's root, compile front-end assets:

```
yarn
yarn build
```

Create a Python virtual environment and install required packages:

```
python3.8 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements/base.txt
```

Optionally set the `CRAWL_DATABASE` environment variable to point to a local crawl database:

```
export CRAWL_DATABASE=cfgov.sqlite3
```

Finally, run the Django webserver:

```
./manage.py runserver
```

The viewer application will be available locally at http://localhost:8000.

## Development

### Testing

To run Python unit tests, first install the test dependencies in your virtual environment:

```
pip install -r requirements/test.txt
```

To run the tests:

```
./manage.py test --keepdb
```

The `--keepdb` parameter is used because tests are run using a fixed,
pre-existing test database.

### Code formatting

This project uses [Black](https://github.com/psf/black) as a Python code formatter.

To check if your changes to project code match the desired coding style:

```
black . --check
```

You can fix any problems by running:

```
black .
```

This project uses [Prettier](https://prettier.io/) as a code formatter
for JavaScript, CSS, and HTML templates.

To check if your changes to project code match the desired coding style:

```
yarn prettier
```

You can fix any problems by running:

```
yarn fix
```

### Sample test data

This repository includes sample web archive and database files for testing
purposes at `/sample/crawl.warc.gz` and `/sample/sample.sqlite3`.

The sample database file is used by the viewer application when no other crawl
database file has been specified.

The source website content used to generate these files is included in this repository
under the `/sample/src` subdirectory.
To regenerate these files, first serve the sample website locally:

```
python -m http.server -d ./sample/src
```

This starts the sample website running at http://localhost:8000.

Then, in another terminal, start a crawl against the locally running site:

```
./wget_crawl.sh http://localhost:8000
```

This will create a WARC archive named `crawl.warc.gz` in your working directory.

Next, convert this to a test database file:

```
./manage.py warc_to_db crawl.warc.gz sample.sqlite3
```

This will create a SQLite database named `sample.sqlite3` in your working directory.

Finally, use these newly created files to replace the existing ones in the `/sample` subdirectory:

```
mv crawl.warc.gz sample.sqlite3 ./sample
```

----

## Open source licensing info
1. [TERMS](TERMS.md)
2. [LICENSE](LICENSE)
3. [CFPB Source Code Policy](https://github.com/cfpb/source-code-policy/)
